## Introduction

This site contains the documentation as we are building it up for the second public sequence resource (aka as PubSeq2). The original PubSeq1 resource was focused on presenting public SARS-CoV-2 sequences with associated metadata and the older website lives here:

=> https://covid19.genenetwork.org/

Thanks to PubSeq1 we got support for Amazon AWS Open Data initiative to host data. We also have support from Curii Corp to host their FOSS Arvados product which can run common workflow language (CWL) pipelines. Finally we have a grant from the Dutch Science Foundation (NWO) for 1 million compute hours on SURFsara's super computer and cloud HPC. See

=> https://registry.opendata.aws/pubseq/ AWS Open Data PubSeq
=> https://arvados.org/ Arvados
=> https://www.nwo.nl/projecten/2021040 COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 Pangenome Workflows
=> https://servicedesk.surfsara.nl/wiki/display/WIKI/Snellius+hardware+and+file+systems SURFsara Snellius

On a separate track we have an initiative to create a 1 million core RISC-V supercomputer for pangenomics and PubSeq2 may be one of the important targets.

=> https://news.cornell.edu/stories/2021/11/5m-grant-will-tackle-pangenomics-computing-challenge

## The Goal

The goal for PubSeq2 is to create and maintain a *pangenome* of all human pathogens with their *metadata* - as fetched from public resources (that means no data that lacks a license for sharing data). Fortunately there are some great public resources, including NCBI and EBI.
The PubSeq2 project aims to bring people together to create a useful resource.

## Why?

We want to get to affordable human pathogen surveillance and rapid clinical diagnostics using (but not limited to) the Oxford Nanopore sequencer. For this we will build several types of pangenomes that can help quickly identify pathogens existing in the sequence sample --- and even use it for adaptive sequencing, for example, with a Jetson GPU. For a few thousand dollars anyone can set up a sequencing lab for surveillance and clinical diagnostics.

## Who?

The participants are on NIH, NSF, Wellcome Trust and EU grants to create tools for pangenomes, CWL tools, clinical diagnostics etc.

## Note

Note that, even though the focus is on human pathogens, the tooling will be widely applicable to many species.

## Plan

=> plan.gmi

## More

Here we are writing up a concept note that is relevant for Africa

=> concept/Africa.gmi

## How to participate?

Join our notifications and discussions on Matrix!

=> https://matrix.to/#/#PubSeq:matrix.org PubSeq:matrix.org

Contribute to our source code and documentation on github

=> https://github.com/pubseq/
